## SmartAleck ##

This is a Ruby on Rails application that provides a simple, opinionated, novel tag-based knowledge base system.

SmartAleck always gives you exactly what you ask for. That is, you browse the articles in the system by combining the categories in the bar on the left side of the page.

If an article is categorized with “Category A,” then that article will show up only if “Category A” is the only category in your current view. Likewise, an article categorized with both “Category A” and “Category B” will only show up if you have selected those exact categories.

To make things a bit easier, the list of categories that you can choose shrinks as you add categories to your view. Categories that you’ve already chosen are removed from the list, and the list only shows categories that will yield articles at any point in time.

## Development ##

A Docker (Compose) based development configuration is included. To get started,
you'll need Docker and Docker Compose installed. Once this is taken care of,
you can create your development/testing environment like so:

```
docker-compose build
```

Once this finishes, the easiest way to interact with the dev environment is with the `bin/dev` script. With no arguments, `bin/dev` starts an interactive shell in the development container. Any arguments given to the script are considered a command to run within the container.

To actually run a development server, you can `docker-compose up` to start the application and its backing services. When you're done with the server, a CTRL-C will stop it and all of the backing services. Your first session with the app will likely look something like this:

```
# In one terminal

docker-compose up

# After waiting for everything to come up in the first terminal, open a second
# terminal and ...

bin/dev bundle exec rake db:migrate
bin/dev bundle exec rake user:create[my@email.com]
```

After grabbing the password generated by `user:create`, you should be able to log in at http://localhost:3000

### Examples ###

* Run an interactive shell: `bin/dev`
* Run database migrations: `bin/dev bundle exec rake db:migrate`
* Create a user: `bin/dev bundle exec rake user:create[me@example.com]`
* Run feature tests: `bin/dev bundle exec rake cucumber`
* Run spec tests: `bin/dev bundle exec rake spec`
* Run all tests: `bin/dev bundle exec rake`

### Notes ###

* As of May 2019, this application is configured via environment variables so as to fit into the 12-factor application paradigm. To that end, when hacking on the project, any config files that you add should reference environment variables rather than hard values, and those environment variables should be listed as requirements in `config/initializers/figaro.rb` to ensure that their omission results in an initialization error rather than a runtime error.
* On the other hand, if you prefer runtime errors to initialization errors for some reason, you can omit/remove items from `config/initializers/figaro.rb` to make that happen.
* See `config/database.yml` and `config/secrets.yml` for an example of how one might set up environment variable configuration.

## Production ##

There are three ways to run the application in production: bare server, container orchestration, and 12-factor PaaS. A PostgreSQL database for the app is presumed to exist for each of these scenarios.

### Bare Server ###

To run the application on a bare server (ie Engine Yard Cloud), there isn't actually all that much to do. In short, one just needs to make sure that the environment variables listed in `config/initializers/figaro.rb` are populated in the shell that will execute the application.

On EY Cloud, for example, you might use the `custom-env_vars` cookbook to set up values for `DATABASE_URL` and `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.

Alternately, one might add a deployment step that writes out `config/application.yml` that contains entries for those variables.

Aside from that, the only thing that one needs to do is to run the application via `bundle exec unicorn ...`.

### Container Orchestration ###

A Docker based production configuration is included. To get started, you'll need Docker installed locally as well as an account on a repository to which you can push images. Once all of that is taken care of, the release process is like so (assuming you've set up local access to your repo):

1. Build a tagged image: `docker build -t <your-repo-username>/smart_aleck-rails:<build-version>`
2. Push your image: `docker push <your-repo-username>/smart_aleck-rails:<build-version>`
3. Instruct your container orchestrator to use the new version of the image

On an initial deploy, you'll also need to configure the orchestrator to inject `DATABASE_URL` and `SECRET_KEY_BASE` to reference your database and your install-specific crypto key base, respectively.

### 12-factor PaaS ###

To run the app on a 12-factor PaaS (ie Heroku/Deis/Hephy/Dokku), you effectively just need to push the application to the PaaS and configure both `DATABASE_URL` and `SECRET_KEY_BASE`.

A `Procfile` is included that describes the default server process, and it is presumed that the `Dockerfile` included with the application will be detected and used by the PaaS to build the application.

## History ##

* 0.0.18
* 0.0.17
* 0.0.16
* 0.0.15
* 0.0.14
* 0.0.13
* 0.0.12
* 0.0.11
* 0.0.10
* 0.0.9
* 0.0.8
* 0.0.7
* 0.0.6
* 0.0.5
* 0.0.4
* 0.0.3
* 0.0.2
* 0.0.1
